Groups Docs (#2528)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/user-guides/groups.md

---

> title: Groups

Reviewer: Note: This isn't linked from any sidebar. Intentional?

Author: Fixed

sidebar: Docs

> showTitle: true

Reviewer: TODO: Remove the other docs, add a redirect here.

Author: Old docs

Reviewer: I think this isn't resolved.

---

> # What are groups and how are they different to cohorts?

Reviewer: We could slim this title down

Author: Needs a better title

> Groups are how you track and perform analysis on the aggregation of an something other than a user. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Groups are how you track and perform analysis on the aggregation of something other than a user. 
```

> ## Types of groups

Author: Move these two sections into how our solution works

> The simplest example of a group is a company, users from multiple companies that might use your product - groups allows you do to analytics on these - e.g. Daily Active Companies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplest example of a group is a company. You may have multiple companies using your product, each with multiple users. Group analytics enables you to query these companies separately from the users - e.g. Daily Active Companies (DAC). 
```

> Groups are not limited to companies they can be of any type you determine. For example, transactions can be a group. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Groups are not limited to just companies and can be of any type you determine. For example, transactions can be a group. 
```

> Let's say you have a payment app. You want to track & do analysis on the transaction level, not the user level. You can  create a transaction group type, allowing you to answer questions like: "What is the conversion rate per transaction?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's say you have a payment app. You want to track and analyze on the transaction level, not the user level. You can create a transaction group type, enabling you to answer questions such as: "What is the conversion rate per transaction?"
```

## Groups vs cohorts

> Groups differ from cohorts, a cohort is a essentially a list of users. Whereas a groups represent every entity of a certain type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Groups differ from cohorts. A cohort is essentially a list of users, whereas a groups represents every entity of a certain type.
```

Following the company example again, you can have a cohort of users which belong to a certain company (e.g. Company A). But you could create a group type of "companies" which represents all companies and their users.

> # What can you do with groups?

Reviewer: Maybe have this as the first section?

As another example, if `transaction` is a group type, then each `transactionID` is a group.

## Defining groups

Groups are at the event level. If everything is setup correctly, then events that come into PostHog have a group associated with them, which is determined by you. See below for how to set this up.

Thus, there's no new events corresponding to groups: it's simply the events that already exist, aggregated by group values.

A popular misconception is that groups are defined per user. This might make sense if the group type is a company, since a company is a set of users, but it quickly breaks down when you're looking at a transaction group type: here a user can do multiple transactions. Thus, remember that groups are defined on events.

Another important concept to remember here is that a single event belongs to only a single group per group type. For example, say you have a `transaction occured` event. And you have 3 group types: `transaction`, `company`, `pineapple_type`.

Then, this event can belong to at most one group per group type. So, for this event, you can have `transaction = 123456789`, `company = PostHog`, `pineapple_type = British`.

> You can't have something like: `transaction = [123456789, 12345678910]`. This is not possible.

Reviewer: :thinking: is a negative example a good idea? Will someone copy-pasta it/misunderstand?

Author: Added a warning to make it clearer

What if you wanted to breakdown this funnel by company name? Maybe there's specific companies that never converted, and you want to follow up with them to see what's going wrong. Like mentioned above, if you have group properties defined, you can breakdown by `company_name`. 

## How to think about Feature Flags with groups

Similar to insights, where you're aggregating events by group type, you can have Feature Flags that work on groups. This allows you to rollout a feature by company, instead of users. Preventing disruption when two users at the same company see a different experience.

You can use feature flags as you normally would, except you need to select the group type you wish to "Match by", using the drop down by release conditions.

You will also need to update your event tracking code (covered below), for the feature flag to be able to determine the groups of the current user.

# How do I get started?

## Getting access
Groups is a paid feature, so you'll need to be on our [Scale or Enterprise plans](https://posthog.com/pricing) for self-hosted or have entered your credit-card on cloud.

> On-self hosted you must also be on the latest release: 1.31.0 or above.

Reviewer: TODO: Link to license page (section from slack)

Reviewer: # Feature availability
Group analytics is a premium feature that requires an additional subscription.
- If you're self-hosting PostHog, Group Analytics is available on the Scale & Enterprise plans. [Get a license now](https://license.posthog.com?utm_source=docs&utm_campaign=group-analytics-docs-license)
- If you're on PostHog Cloud, you just need to set up your billing information. Group Analytics is available on all our paid plans. [Set up billing](https://app.posthog.com/organization/billing?utm_source=docs&utm_campaign=group-analytics-docs-license)

## Integrating tracking
To make use of group analytics, you need to update your event capture code. See the sections below for how to set it up depending on how you are sending data to PostHog.

The following examples use `company` as a group type and `id:5` as the group key. Replace these with your particular values.

> **Tip:** Use a singular form of the group type throughout ingestion

> ### [posthog-js](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate/client/js)

Reviewer: TODO: Update this to use tabs.

Author: Will do early next week

# Updating group properties
posthog.group_identify('company', 'id:5', {
    'company_name': 'Awesome Inc',
    'employees': 11
})
```

### [posthog-php](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate/server/php)

Update to version 2.1.0 or above to make use of the new functionality.

```c
# Capturing an event with groups
PostHog::capture(array(
    'distinctId' => '[distinct id]',
    'event' => 'some event',
    '$groups' => array("company" => "id:5")
));

# Updating a groups properties
PostHog::groupIdentify(array(
    'groupType' => 'company',
    'groupKey' => 'id:5',
    'properties' => array("company_name" => "Awesome Inc", "employees" => 11)
));
```

### [posthog-go](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate/server/go)

```go
// Capturing an event with groups
client.Enqueue(posthog.Capture{
    DistinctId: "[distinct id]",
    Event:      "some event",
    Groups: posthog.NewGroups().
        Set("company", "id:5").
})

// Updating a groups properties
client.Enqueue(posthog.GroupIdentify{
    Type: "company",
    Key:  "id:5",
    Properties: posthog.NewProperties().
        Set("company_name", "Awesome Inc").
        Set("employees", 11),
})
```

> Using groups with go requires latest version of `posthog-go`. Update dependencies via:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using groups with go requires the latest version of `posthog-go`. Update dependencies via:
```

> ---

Reviewer: QQ: We call this feature internally group analytics which also translates better to SEO - I think we should call this doc the same.

title: Groups
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

# What can you do with groups?

Groups are how you track and perform analysis on the aggregation of an something other than a user. 

## Group Analytics
You can perform any type of analytics (e.g. Trends, Funnels, Retention, etc.) based on groups rather than users (e.g. Number of companies who signed up in the last 28 days, Number of total transactions in the past 14 days, etc.)

## Feature flags
You can use groups to roll-out your feature flags more consistently. Instead of giving users in the same organization a different experience, roll out the feature flag to whole organizations.

# How our solution works?

With groups, there's two important concepts to remember. These are Groups and Group Types.

## Groups vs Group Types

> The simplest example of a group type is a company, users from multiple companies that might use your product - groups allows you do to analytics on these - e.g. Daily Active Companies.

Reviewer 3: Should be "groups allows you **to do** analytics"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplest example of a group type is a company; users from multiple companies that use your product. Groups enable you to analyze these - e.g. Daily Active Companies.
```

**Warning:** You can't have something like: `transaction = [123456789, 12345678910]`. This is not possible.

You can skip some groups if they don't make sense. For example, `transaction = 123456789`, `company = PostHog`, and no `pineapple_type` is valid as well.

## Group Properties

Every group can have properties associated with it. For example, if you have the `company` group, you could have properties defined on this group, like `company_name`, `revenue`, `user_count`, etc. etc.

As another example, the `transactionID 12345679` group of `transaction` group type can have properties like `transaction_value`, `transaction_method`, etc. associated with them.

These properties can be used in insights similar to how you use person properties.

## Groups vs cohorts

Groups differ from cohorts, a cohort is a essentially a list of users. Whereas a groups represent every entity of a certain type.

Following the company example again, you can have a cohort of users which belong to a certain company (e.g. Company A). But you could create a group type of "companies" which represents all companies and their users.

# How do I get started?

> ## Getting access

Reviewer: Should also mention minimum PH version :)

---

> title: Groups

Author: ```suggestion
title: Group Analytics
```

---

# What are groups and how are they different to cohorts?
Groups are how you track and perform analysis on the aggregation of an something other than a user. 

## Types of groups

The simplest example of a group is a company, users from multiple companies that might use your product - groups allows you do to analytics on these - e.g. Daily Active Companies.

Groups are not limited to companies they can be of any type you determine. For example, transactions can be a group. 

Let's say you have a payment app. You want to track & do analysis on the transaction level, not the user level. You can  create a transaction group type, allowing you to answer questions like: "What is the conversion rate per transaction?"

> ## Groups vs cohorts

Reviewer: We have two sections at the top laying out the same thing right now. I assume this is tbd?

## Defining groups

Groups are at the event level. If everything is setup correctly, then events that come into PostHog have a group associated with them, which is determined by you. See below for how to set this up.

Thus, there's no new events corresponding to groups: it's simply the events that already exist, aggregated by group values.

> A popular misconception is that groups are defined per user. This might make sense if the group type is a company, since a company is a set of users, but it quickly breaks down when you're looking at a transaction group type: here a user can do multiple transactions. Thus, remember that groups are defined on events.

Reviewer: Note: It also breaks down if users belong to multiple companies or switch their active company. E.g. internal staff users or administrators for B2B usecases.

Reviewer 4: Makes sense. I wanted to give an example that drives the point across, and transactions is more obvious. Not aiming to list everything wrong with groups per user here :)

Author: I'll just add another sentence to cover this

Traditionally, you'd only have unique users in the funnel: Users from any and every company who're using your product and doing something important. Your conversion rate is per user. But what if you're interested in looking at this conversion rate across companies? Say, you're a B2B product and doing something important once per company is good enough. Then the funnel you want to track is `User signed up -> User activated` aggregated by unique companies, not users.

That's a group aggregation over the company group type. It's the same events, aggregated differently.

What if you wanted to breakdown this funnel by company name? Maybe there's specific companies that never converted, and you want to follow up with them to see what's going wrong. Like mentioned above, if you have group properties defined, you can breakdown by `company_name`. 

## How to think about Feature Flags with groups

Similar to insights, where you're aggregating events by group type, you can have Feature Flags that work on groups. This allows you to rollout a feature by company, instead of users. Preventing disruption when two users at the same company see a different experience.

> With group properties defined, you can even do things like rolling out a feature to `companies` where the `user_count` is less than, say, 3. Maybe it's a feature for small teams, or maybe you simply want to minimise impact in the beginning.

Reviewer: This feature doesn't exist. This is a potential aspirational usecase from team growth but not something we're currently building out.

Author: Noted - will remove.

> With group properties defined, you can even do things like rolling out a feature to `companies` where the `user_count` is less than, say, 3. Maybe it's a feature for small teams, or maybe you simply want to minimise impact in the beginning.

Author: ```suggestion
```
